Add blog post on project governance changes (#2873)
knative/docs: blog/steering/governance-changes.md

type: "blog"

---
| Reviewer  | Date | Approval |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| <!-- Your Github handle here --> |   |  |

One of the long-standing [asks](https://github.com/knative/community/issues/33) within the Knative community has been for the Steering Committee to clarify its charter and how the committee is composed. I'm happy to be able to say that we now have a new [Steering Committee charter](https://github.com/knative/community/pull/277) which, in my opinion, delivers on this ask. Community participation was central to working through the process to get to this new charter, and I first and foremost want to say a sincere THANK YOU to everyone in our community that participated in our public discussions on this topic. I don't think it is an exaggeration to say that the entire community was involved in this effort, or that the community participation helped to influence the direction the discussions went.

Let me summarize the meaning of the changes, and then go into some detail:

- There will be elections for Steering Committee members
- Steering committee members serve as individuals rather than representing their employer

> - No vendor will be allowed to have a majority of seats in the SC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- No vendor will be allowed to have a majority of seats in the Steering Committee
```

> - We added the new Trademark Committee to handle matters related to the trademark

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We added the new Knative Trademark Committee (KTC) to handle matters related to the trademark
```

> - There is a transition plan from the current scheme to the new governance scheme

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- There is a transition plan from the current bootstrap scheme to the new governance scheme
```

Those of you who love committees will be pleased that we have increased the committee count within the project by one. Those of you who don't love committees for their own sake may be asking what the purpose of such a committee is; luckily, there is a clear and sensible answer. During the discussions around new governance, it became apparent that there was a clear separation of concerns between the specific vendor needs around trademark, "core" scope (for lack of a better term) and comformance, and the broader community needs around everything else Steering does. While we could have created a hybrid structure for Steering, we decided it was simpler to just have a vendor committee that focused only on scope and comformance, with the Steering committee focusing on the other aspects of community growth and project governance.

> The new "KTC" will initially include representatives from Google, Red Hat/IBM, and VMware. They will need to figure out how new components and features "plug in" to the Knative ecosystem in a non-technical sense. They will also help Steering settle questions around derivative trademarks and logos, Knative "extensions", and other questions about being part of our larger project. The KTC will be 'refreshed' in a year, at the same time that the 2021 steering elections happen. When the committee is refreshed, new vendors may receive a seat on the KTC, by virtue of their contributions in the previous year. Since we know that not all contributions are easy to quantify, any vendor may frame their contributions, and request consideration for membership on the KTC.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The new "KTC" (Knative Trademark Committee) will initially include representatives from Google, Red Hat/IBM, and VMware. They will need to figure out how new components and features "plug in" to the Knative ecosystem in a non-technical sense. They will also help Steering settle questions around derivative trademarks and logos, Knative "extensions", and other questions about being part of our larger project. The KTC will be 'refreshed' in a year, at the same time that the 2021 steering elections happen. When the committee is refreshed, new vendors may receive a seat on the KTC, by virtue of their contributions in the previous year. Since we know that not all contributions are easy to quantify, any vendor may frame their contributions, and request consideration for membership on the KTC.
```

---
Title: 'Knative Project Governance Changes'

> Author: Paul Morie

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Author: "[Paul Morie](https://github.com/pmorie)"
```

Author handle: https://github.com/pmorie
Description: Summary of governance changes to steering and trademark committees.
Folder with media files: 'N/A'
Blog URL: ''
Labels: Articles
Reviewers: ''
date: 2020-09-30
description: "Knative Project Governance Changes"
type: "blog"

---
| Reviewer  | Date | Approval |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| <!-- Your Github handle here --> |   |  |

One of the long-standing [asks](https://github.com/knative/community/issues/33)
within the Knative community has been for the Steering Committee to clarify its
charter and how the committee is composed. I'm happy to be able to say that we
now have a new [Steering Committee
charter](https://github.com/knative/community/pull/277) which, in my opinion,
delivers on this ask. Community participation was central to working through the
process to get to this new charter, and I first and foremost want to say a
sincere THANK YOU to everyone in our community that participated in our public

> discussions on this topic. I don't think it is an exaggeration to say that the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
discussions on this topic. 
```

> sincere THANK YOU to everyone in our community that participated in our public

Reviewer 4: should we have links [pulbic discussions] to the PRs and video recordings of the meetings for transparency?

> entire community was involved in this effort, or that the community

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The community
```

> participation helped to influence the direction the discussions went.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
participation, which included individual code and non-code contributors, as well as working group leads, helped to influence the direction the discussions went.
```

Let me summarize the meaning of the changes, and then go into some detail:

> - There will be elections for Steering Committee members

Reviewer 4: Add links with more on when and the timeline.

- Steering committee members serve as individuals rather than representing their employer
- No vendor will be allowed to have a majority of seats in the Steering Committee
- We added the new Knative Trademark Committee (KTC) to handle matters related to the trademark

> - There is a transition plan from the current bootstrap scheme to the new governance scheme

Reviewer 4: add link for more info go here...

Those of you who love committees will be pleased that we have increased the
committee count within the project by one. Those of you who don't love
committees for their own sake may be asking what the purpose of such a committee
is; luckily, there is a clear and sensible answer. During the discussions around
new governance, it became apparent that there was a clear separation of concerns
between the specific vendor needs around trademark, "core" scope (for lack of a

> better term) and comformance, and the broader community needs around everything

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
better term) and conformance, and the broader community needs around everything
```

else Steering does. While we could have created a hybrid structure for Steering,
we decided it was simpler to just have a vendor committee that focused only on

> scope and comformance, with the Steering committee focusing on the other aspects

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
scope and conformance, with the Steering committee focusing on the other aspects
```

of community growth and project governance.

The KTC will initially include representatives from Google, Red Hat/IBM, and
VMware. They will need to figure out how new components and features "plug in"
to the Knative ecosystem in a non-technical sense. They will also help Steering
settle questions around derivative trademarks and logos, Knative "extensions",

> and other questions about being part of our larger project. The KTC will be

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and other questions about being part of our larger project. Membership to the KTC
```

> and other questions about being part of our larger project. Membership to the KTC

Reviewer 5: “Membership” is an interesting term since it might imply some monetary contribution, like membership in a club. Of course, it also has the other meaning, elected members. Could be clearer on how membership is attained, renewed, and / or revoked? Just to clarify.

> 'refreshed' in a year, at the same time that the 2021 steering elections happen.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
is renewed on an annual basis, at the same time that the 2021 steering elections happen.
```

> When the committee is refreshed, new vendors may receive a seat on the KTC, by

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the committee is renewed, new vendors may receive a seat on the KTC, by
```

virtue of their contributions in the previous year. Since we know that not all
contributions are easy to quantify, any vendor may frame their contributions,
and request consideration for membership on the KTC.

With regard to the Steering Committee, the five members will be elected by the
contributors to Knative, the same way that TOC members are. The difference
between Steering and TOC will be that TOC members need to be code reviewers,
whereas Steering members might contribute in other areas and will lead the
project in non-code areas. To ensure fairness, no more than two Steering members

> may work for the same employer. As the project grows, it's possible that we may

Reviewer 6: wonder if we should not add this (to 7 seats in the future), but maybe say something about the fact that "as the project and its needs evolve, we will revisit the mechanics of the steering to ensure that the project needs are met". or sumtin like that.
